### STRINGS
- It is a special object that is used to store and manipulate sequence of character.
```JS
const simpleString = 'I am string';
const simpleString2 = "I am string too";
const templateString = `I am template string ${simpleString}`;
```
- #### [Length](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/length) property
	- The length data property of a String value contains the length of the string in UTF-16 code units.
```JS
const simpleString = 'I am string';
console.log(simpleString.length); // 11
```
- #### [charAt](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/charAt)  
	- The String object's charAt() method returns a new string consisting of the single UTF-16 code unit located at the specified offset into the string.
```JS
const sentence = 'The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.';
const index = 4;
console.log(`The character at index ${index} is ${sentence.charAt(index)}`); //Output: "The character at index 4 is q"
```

- #### STRING Popular methods
	- slice()
		- Extracts a section of a string and returns it as a new string, without modifying the original string.
		- Parameters:
			1. indexStart (String) - The index of the first character to include in the returned substring. 
			2. indexEnd (String) - The index of the first character to exclude from the returned substring.
	- trim()
		- Removes whitespace from both ends of a string and returns a new string, without modifying the original string. Whitespace in this context is all the whitespace characters (space, tab, no-break space, etc.) and all the line terminator characters (LF, CR, etc.).
	- toUperCase()
		- Returns the calling string value converted to uppercase (the value will be converted to a string if it isn't one).
	- toLowerCase()
		- Returns the calling string value returns the calling string value converted to lower case.
	- split()
		- Takes a pattern and divides a String into an ordered list of substrings by searching for the pattern, puts these substrings into an array, and returns the array.
	- match()
		- Retrieves the result of matching a string against a [regular expression](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Regular_Expressions).
		- Parameters:
			- regexp (String) - A regular expression object, or any object that has a Symbol.match method.
	- replace()
		- Returns a new string with one, some, or all matches of a pattern replaced by a replacement. The pattern can be a string or a RegExp, and the replacement can be a string or a function called for each match. If pattern is a string, only the first occurrence will be replaced. The original string is left unchanged.
		- Parameters:
			- pattern Can be a string or an object with a Symbol.replace method — the typical example being a regular expression. Any value that doesn't have the Symbol.replace method will be coerced to a string.
			- replacement Can be a string or a function.

- #### Math Objects
	- Is a built-in object that has properties and methods for mathematical constants and functions. It's not a function object. Math works with the **Number** type.
>[!Warning]
>It doesn't work with **BigInt**.
#### [Math.round()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Math/round)
- Static method returns the value of a number rounded to the nearest integer.
#### [Math.floor()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Math/floor)
- Static method always rounds down and returns the largest integer less than or equal to a given number.
#### [Math.ceil()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Math/ceil)
- Static method always rounds up and returns the smallest integer greater than or equal to a given number.
#### [Math.random()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Math/random)
- Returns a floating-point, pseudo-random number that's greater than or equal to 0 and less than 1, with approximately uniform distribution over that range — which you can then scale to your desired range. The implementation selects the initial seed to the random number generation algorithm; it cannot be chosen or reset by the user.

## Template literals
- Literals delimited with backtick characters, allowing for multi-line strings, for string interpolation with embedded expressions, and for special constructs called tagged templates. Template literals are sometimes informally called template strings, because they are used most commonly for string interpolation (to create strings by doing substitution of placeholders). However, a tagged template literal may not result in a string; it can be used with a custom tag function to perform whatever operations you want on the different parts of the template literal.

## Throwing errors
- [Error objects](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) are thrown when runtime errors occur. The Error object can also be used as a base object for user-defined exceptions.



### ARRAYS
- [Array](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) is special object that is used to store different elements.

- #### ARRAYS Popular methods
	- join()
		- Creates and returns a new string by concatenating all of the elements in an array (or an array-like object), separated by commas or a specified separator string. If the array has only one item, then that item will be returned without using the separator.
		- Parameters:
			- Separator (optional) - Specifies a string to separate each pair of adjacent elements of the array. The separator is converted to a string if necessary. If omitted, the array elements are separated with a comma (","). If separator is an empty string, all elements are joined without any characters in between them.
	- includes()
		- determines whether an array includes a certain value among its entries, returning true or false as appropriate.
		- Parameters:
			- searchElement - The value to search for.
	- indexOf()
		- Returns the first index at which a given element can be found in the array, or -1 if it is not present.
		- Parameters:
			- searchElement - Element to locate in the array.
			- fromIndex (optional) - The index to start the search at. If the index is greater than or equal to the array's length, -1 is returned, which means the array will not be searched. If the provided index value is a negative number, it is taken as the offset from the end of the array. Note: if the provided index is negative, the array is still searched from front to back. If the provided index is 0, then the whole array will be searched. Default: 0 (entire array is searched).
	- push()
		- Adds one or more elements to the end of an array and returns the new length of the array.
		- Parameters:
			- elementN - The element(s) to add to the end of the array.
	- pop()
		- Removes the last element from an array and returns that element. This method changes the length of the array.
	- unshift()
		- Adds one or more elements to the beginning of an array and returns the new length of the array.
		- Parameters:
			- elementN - The elements to add to the front of the arr.
	- shift()
		- Removes the first element from an array and returns that removed element. This method changes the length of the array.
	- forEach()
		- Executes a provided function once for each array element.
		- Parameters:
			- callbackFn - Function to execute on each element. The function is called with the following arguments:
			- element - The current element being processed in the array.
			- index - The index of element in the array.
			- array - The array forEach() was called upon.
			- thisArg (Optional) - Value to use as this when executing callbackFn.
	-  slice()
		- Returns a shallow copy of a portion of an array into a new array object selected from start to end (end not included) where start and end represent the index of items in that array. The original array will not be modified.
		- Parameters:
			1. Start - Zero-based index at which to start extraction.
			2. End (Optional) - The index of the first element to exclude from the returned array. slice extracts up to but not including end. For example, slice(1,4) extracts the second element through the fourth element (elements indexed 1, 2, and 3).
	- splice()
		- Changes the contents of an array by removing or replacing existing elements and/or adding new elements in place. To access part of an array without modifying it, see slice().
		- Parameters:
			- start - The index at which to start changing the array.\
			- deleteCount (Optional) - An integer indicating the number of elements in the array to remove from start
			- item1, …, itemN (Optional) - The elements to add to the array, beginning from start.
	- reverse()
		- Reverses an array in place and returns the reference to the same array, the first array element now becoming the last, and the last array element becoming the first. In other words, elements order in the array will be turned towards the direction opposite to that previously stated.
	- sort()
		- Sorts the elements of an array in place and returns the reference to the same array, now sorted. The default sort order is ascending, built upon converting the elements into strings, then comparing their sequences of UTF-16 code units values.
		- Parameters:
			- compareFn - Specifies a function that defines the sort order. If omitted, the array elements are converted to strings, then sorted according to each character's Unicode code point value.
	- map()
		- Creates a new array populated with the results of calling a provided function on every element in the calling array.
		- Parameters:
			- callbackFn - Function that is called for every element of arr. Each time callbackFn executes, the returned value is added to newArray.
			- thisArg (Optional) - Value to use as this when executing callbackFn.
	- every()
		- Tests whether all elements in the array pass the test implemented by the provided function. It returns a Boolean value.
		- Parameters:
			- callbackFn  - A function to test for each element.
			- thisArg (Optional) - A value to use as this when executing callbackFn.
	- filter()
		- Creates a shallow copy of a portion of a given array, filtered down to just the elements from the given array that pass the test implemented by the provided function.
		- Parameters:
			- callbackFn - Function is a predicate, to test each element of the array. Return a value that coerces to true to keep the element, or to false otherwise.
			- thisArg (Optional) - Value to use as this when executing callbackFn.
	- find()
		- Returns the first element in the provided array that satisfies the provided testing function. If no values satisfy the testing function, undefined is returned.
		- Parameters:
			- callbackFn - Function to execute on each value in the array.
			- thisArg (Optional) - Object to use as this inside callbackFn.
	- some()
		- Tests whether at least one element in the array passes the test implemented by the provided function. It returns true if, in the array, it finds an element for which the provided function returns true; otherwise it returns false. It doesn't modify the array.
		- Parameters:
			- callbackFn  - A function to test for each element.
			- thisArg (Optional) - A value to use as this when executing callbackFn.
	- reduce()
		- Executes a user-supplied "reducer" callback function on each element of the array, in order, passing in the return value from the calculation on the preceding element. The final result of running the reducer across all elements of the array is a single value.
		- Parameters:
			- callbackFn  - A "reducer" function
			- initialValue (Optional) - A value to which previousValue is initialized the first time the callback is called. If initialValue is specified, that also causes currentValue to be initialized to the first value in the array. If initialValue is not specified, previousValue is initialized to the first value in the array, and currentValue is initialized to the second value in the array.